a sense of death headed across the pond
to Great Britain smile because you may
find yourself on candid camera
in some parts of the country you're
likely to be caught on video as many as
300 times a day now in one town in
northern England the cameras won't just
be watching you they could be giving you
a scolding as well and this is Donna
Friesen explains walk down any Street in
Britain and they are there
more than 4 million security cameras
most of them silent sentinels but now
some of them speak loud speakers have
been fitted to seven CCTV cameras the
effect shock and usually a sheepish
correction of bad behavior it's a pilot
project in Middlesbrough England mayor
ray Malan a former police officer
doesn't take kindly to crime his
nickname is Robocop the number one
priority isn't terrorism the number one
priority within the public domain is
what we call unsee social behavior
people on the streets you must be here
the commanding by anonymous voice comes
from this control center where operators
keep 24-hour watch through 146 cameras
pretty unnerving to be shouted at in
public but the whole point of this is to
shame people you're welcome
the operators are trained to be polite
and already the system has been used to
break up a number of late-night brawls
it will be effective if you don't do
anything wrong we won't film security
technology is becoming more intrusive
it's in your car on the bus even
strapped to the heads of police officers
these of these cameras amounts to
psychological warfare on the people that
we will watch you we will monitor we
will control you what sort of country
have we become so far there been no
complaints from the public but there is
some unease palm over there Big Brother
over now big brother is not only keeping
an eye on you he's showing the youtubes
more today don't have reason NBC News
Middlesbrough England